Updating screenshots and instructions for Dynamic Vegetation user guide (#1401)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/environment/vegetation/procedures/layer.md

toc: true
---

Creating a vegetation layer is the most basic step in creating your dynamic vegetation, however a few requirements must be met in order to spawn vegetation successfully.

> **Pre-requisites/Setup**

Author: Fixed.

> * Vegetation assets spawned via a Vegetation Layer Spawner component require a surface to plant on. This can be done one of several ways:
>    * In the following workflow, we established a surface by adding a **Mesh Surface Tag Emitter** component to the *Ground* entity that exists as a part of the *Atom Default Environment* entity hierarchy that is added to each new level.
>    * You can also establish a surface by:
>      - Adding a **Mesh Surface Tag Emitter** component to any other entity with a Mesh component
>      - Adding a **Shape Surface Tag Emitter** component to an entity with a Shape component
>      - Adding [Terrain](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/terrain/layer_spawner) to the level

Reviewer: Let's update this to use the active voice. Using the past tense to refer to a future step is a potential source of confusion. Also, make sure to end bulleted list items with a period.
```suggestion
To spawn vegetation assets using a Vegetation Layer Spawner component, you must have a surface to plant on. You can establish a surface by doing any of the following:

* Add a **Mesh Surface Tag Emitter** component to the *Ground* entity that exists as a part of the *Atom Default Environment* entity hierarchy that is included with each new level. (This technique is used in the example that follows.)
* Add a **Mesh Surface Tag Emitter** component to any other entity that has a Mesh component.
* Add a **Shape Surface Tag Emitter** component to an entity that has a Shape component.
* Add [Terrain](/docs/user-guide/components/reference/terrain/layer_spawner) to the level.
```

Author: Updated with suggested change.

> * Vegetation assets exist to spawn:
>    * In the following workflow, we created a saved prefab to spawn via the **Vegetation Layer Spawner** by:
>       1. Creating a new entity
>       2. Adding a **Mesh** component
>       3. Assigning a vegetation `.fbx` file to the **Mesh** component
>       4. Naming and saving the configured entity as a prefab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must also have vegetation assets that the **Vegetation Layer Spawner** can spawn. For the example that follows, we created a prefab named `DryGrassLarge.prefab` using the following steps:
1. Create a new entity.
2. Add a **Mesh** component.
3. Assign a vegetation `.fbx` file to the **Mesh** component.
4. Save the entity as a prefab.
```

Author: Updated with suggested change.

    The **Shape Reference** has no shape on its own. You must next create a child entity and add a **Shape component**, which you will reference in the **Shape Reference**.

4. Right-click **BasicCoverage**, select **Create Entity**, and name it *TestBox*.

5. Select *TestBox*, click **Add Component**, and select the **Box Shape** component.

6. Adjust the size and position of the shape so that it's large enough for your purposes and intersects with the ground.

    ![Adjust your shape to cover a sufficient area and intersect with the ground.](/images/user-guide/vegetation/dynamic/create-vegetation-layer-adjust-shape.png)

7. Select *BasicCoverage* and, in the **Shape Reference** component, click the {{< icon "picker.svg" >}} **entity picker** icon and select the *TestBox* entity.

8. Click **Add Required Component** and choose **Vegetation Asset List**.

    The **Vegetation Asset List** component defines what to plant. This is where you specify vegetation assets.

    ![On the Vegetation Layer Spawner, click Add Component and select Vegetation Asset List.](/images/user-guide/vegetation/dynamic/create-vegetation-layer-asset-list.png)

> 9. 1. In the **Vegetation Asset List** component, change the **Instance Spawner** type to Prefab, and then next to **Prefab Asset**, click the {{< icon "file-folder.svg" >}} **folder** icon to browse for your asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. In the **Vegetation Asset List** component, change the **Instance Spawner** type to Prefab, and then next to **Prefab Asset**, click the {{< icon "file-folder.svg" >}} **folder** icon to browse for your asset.
```

    The **Vegetation Layer Spawner** component is the core component that initializes the engine that spawns vegetation.

1. Click **Add Required Component** and choose **Shape Reference**.

    ![Choose the Shape Reference for your Vegetation Layer Spawner.](/images/user-guide/vegetation/dynamic/create-vegetation-layer-add-shape.png)

    The **Shape Reference** has no shape on its own. You must next create a child entity and add a **Shape component**, which you will reference in the **Shape Reference**.

1. Right-click **BasicCoverage**, select **Create Entity**, and name it *TestBox*.

1. Select *TestBox*, click **Add Component**, and select the **Box Shape** component.

1. Adjust the size and position of the shape so that it's large enough for your purposes and intersects with the ground.

    ![Adjust your shape to cover a sufficient area and intersect with the ground.](/images/user-guide/vegetation/dynamic/create-vegetation-layer-adjust-shape.png)

> 1. Select *BasicCoverage* and, in the **Shape Reference** component, click the target symbol and select the *TestBox* entity.

Reviewer 2: We can add inline icons for interface elements.

```suggestion
1. Select *BasicCoverage* and, in the **Shape Reference** component, click the {{< icon "picker.svg" >}} **entity picker** icon and select the *TestBox* entity.
```

Author: Sweet, updated!

1. Click **Add Required Component** and choose **Vegetation Asset List**.

    The **Vegetation Asset List** component defines what to plant. This is where you specify vegetation assets.

    ![On the Vegetation Layer Spawner, click Add Component and select Vegetation Asset List.](/images/user-guide/vegetation/dynamic/create-vegetation-layer-asset-list.png)

> 1. In the **Vegetation Asset List** component, change the **Instance Spawner** type to Prefab, and then next to **Prefab Asset**, click the folder icon to browse for your asset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the **Vegetation Asset List** component, change the **Instance Spawner** type to Prefab, and then next to **Prefab Asset**, click the {{< icon "file-folder.svg" >}} **folder** icon to browse for your asset.
```

Author: Updated!

    ![Click the Folder icon to select a Prefab Asset.](/images/user-guide/vegetation/dynamic/create-vegetation-layer-browse.png)

> 1. We have a saved prefab with *grass* in the name, so in the **Search** bar, we enter *grass* and select the grass asset in the results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the **Pick a Prefab** window, enter *grass* into the search bar to filter the list of available prefabs. Select the `DryGrassLarge.prefab` asset in the results.
```

Author: Updated using suggested change.

>     ![Click the Folder icon to select a Prefab Asset.](/images/user-guide/vegetation/dynamic/create-vegetation-layer-asset-grass.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Use search to find a prefab asset.](/images/user-guide/vegetation/dynamic/create-vegetation-layer-asset-grass.png)
```

Author: Updated!
